although I'm vegan myself I'm here to
tell you pure and simple
a lot of the statistics that vegans have
been promoting our propaganda are
exaggerated are misleading are
here's a comparison of nuts versus cow
milk in terms of the efficient
production of fat i morally object to
the whole cow exploiting industry this
whole business of having a cow live in a
metal cell from the day it's born the
day it died is pretty terrible but in
terms of converting water into fat it's
more efficient than not for me if you
are watching this video you have
probably seen statistics somewhere
claiming that meat production requires
an enormous amount of water compared to
the production of vegan food grains nuts
soy beans what have you and you may have
seen newspaper articles claiming the
exact opposite that the production of
some vegan foods such as almonds is
actually wasting much more water than
the production of meat which one is it
this chart that you'll now see on your
screen it was posted the internet by
Katie Wells hi Katie
um I wouldn't have seen it if she hadn't
posted it its origin is a website called
non human org intentionally or
unintentionally this is an example of a
fake statistic fake in the sense that it
is misleading it's entirely possible
that the people who made this chart are
themselves mislead and they don't
realize the sense in which it's
misleading we have this great idiom in
the English language apples to oranges
and apples to oranges comparison one
kilogram of rice is not comparable to
one kilogram of beef just as in English
we say apples to oranges you can't
really compare one kilogram of apples to
one kilogram torches but the difference
between rice and beef is even more
extreme especially because if you're
talking about rice being bought as a
commodity dried rice
would you compare that to dried beef
beef that's had the moisture extracted
from it or are you gonna compare the
weight of rice after it's been boiled
after it's been hydrated right that's a
lot heavier one kilogram of wet rice is
different from one kilogram of dried
rice one kilogram of beef jerkey is
different from what kilogram of beef but
in general we all know if we just pause
and think about it
a sack of apples one kilogram of apples
it's healthier than a sack of beef I'm
I'm vegan I'm willing to admit my own
bias here if I'm going to the grocery
store and someone says hey I'll give you
one kilogram for free your choice a
kilogram of apples or a kilogram of beef
I'm gonna take the kilogram of apples
hmm but that's irrelevant right so we
all know even if we lose track of the
fact when we're looking at a chart of
this kind we all know that one kilogram
of pork is not really the same thing as
one kilogram of hazelnuts or one
kilogram of peanuts although they're
both high fat foods so then we get into
the question of how can we construct a
comparison what unit can we or should we
select to examine sistex of this kind
well when we do it on a meaningful units
unit basis of comparison some vegan
foods are much more efficient than meat
and dairy but some are not and some are
close match in this chart we compare
nuts to pork okay I'm going to give you
the source for this in just a moment it
is actually an interesting set of
sources published by UNESCO a pair of
authors have done a few different
reports dealing with these questions of
full lifecycle analysis of how much
water is used in producing food and then
also the side effects of meat production
in terms of water pollution alright but
looking at this chart this is showing
how many liters are can
assumed how many liters of water are
consumed not to produce one kilogram of
pork but how many litres are consumed to
produce one gram of fat now one of the
main reasons why people become vegan and
vegetarian is because they're aware that
there is too much fat in a meat-based
diet being vegan is a lower fat diet
nuts are also extremely dense calorie
dense extremely rich and fat but on this
comparison which one actually consumes
more water in fact pork requires less
water to produce one gram of fat than
the nut industry the efficiency were
measuring is how efficiently different
forms of Agriculture produce fat then
this shows that the pork industry is
producing fat more efficiently than the
nut industry deal with it fresh fruit
not a good source of fat but a good
source of calories rich in calories
guess what fruit agriculture fairly
water intensive calorie per calorie
production of fruit is not that far off
of the production of pork and why is
pork efficient this way the same things
that make modern animal agriculture so
despicable the same things that make
factory farming look so terrible to the
outside world are the same things that
make it more efficient when you do
comparisons of meat agriculture in third
world countries versus first world
countries the third world countries
consume vastly more water to produce the
same amount of meat than westernized
countries this whole horrible factory
farm system exists for a reason it
really is more efficient including
greater efficiency in water usage so the
first bunch of charts showed that animal
agriculture has the advantage in fat so
exactly the same thing that makes
veganism advantageous in terms of
personal health makes it disadvantageous
in these water statistics if we're
looking at fat as a meaningful unit of
measurement
starchy roots the category looked at
here obviously includes potatoes etc in
comparing potatoes to pig meat what do
we see okay if we're not measuring fat
output if we're measuring calorie output
yes it is vastly more efficient to eat
potatoes than it is to eat pork as the
staple of your diet in terms of getting
calories the third and final measure
here to look at instead of just using
kilograms is to look at grams of protein
and while vegans often get angry when
meat-eaters claim that beef and pork and
so on are a great source of protein
guess what if you directly compare nuts
to pork in terms of the liters of water
required per gram of protein pork is a
more efficient source of protein
fortunately nuts are not the staple of
our diet as vegan for myself at least
cereals are the staple in my diet bread
rice etc and this obviously is where the
efficiency in terms of water use of the
vegan diet really starts to come in so
even though people do not think of bread
as a great source of protein actually it
is bread is a major part of the protein
of my own diet and guess what yes water
usage to produce one gram of protein
through cereals way more efficient than
pork but again if you compare this to
our very first chart it's still not as
Extreme a difference as that chart
seemed to portray and obviously everyone
knows that the reason why cereals have
been the staple the human diet
throughout most of recorded history rice
wheat etc is that it is such an
efficient way to get calories in the
human diet and it's no surprise
vegans win on this one cereals compared
to part pork in terms of liters of water
per thousand calories okay that's the
video the bad news is that yes a lot of
vegans are using flawed and misleading
statistics in arguing their case the
good news is that when you look into all
the details and the details are
contradictory and interesting and
thought
provoking and we're thinking about
you're gonna find that yeah
veganism still not only has a massive
moral advantage it also has an
ecological advantage this problem and
what am I going to call it the the
kilogram fallacy the the definition of
the unit fallacy it's a very simple but
fundamental error how do you compare the
the amount of calcium in figs to the
amount of calcium in milk cow milk sorry
about dried figs or exam a wet figs if
it's if it's per kilogram that's a huge
difference right that's going to be even
an exponential difference likewise how
are we going to compare the amount of
calcium in broccoli the amount of
calcium in milk it's easy if you're
doing it per serving if you compare you
know one plate of broccoli or the amount
of broccoli to eating a meal too the
amount of milk you might drink in a meal
but to do it on a kilogram by kilogram
basis it's apples to oranges it's not a
comparison that makes sense you can't
really compare a 10 kilogram crate of
broccoli to a 10 kilogram plate crate of
cheese plate of cheese crative cheese
you get my point the only scenario I can
think of where you would really be
comparing these foods these totally
dissimilar foods on a kilogram to
kilogram basis would be something like
loading a helicopter to go to deliver
food to a famine afflicted area and
where people say do you look the
helicopter can only carry so many
hundred kilograms so how many kilograms
of beef how many kilograms of rice and
how many kilograms of apples are we
going to take now precisely because
something like beef or pork is nutrient
dense it's dense in fat it's dense in
protein if you were actually making that
decision how can you get the most food
value to a bunch of people who are
starving if you were looking at one
kilogram of apples versus one kilogram
of pork that would be a very different
sort of decision
than the sort of decision we all make
beyond that I don't know what to tell
you the vast majority of people have a
lot of trouble understanding social
science statistics and in talking about
veganism we're looking at the overlap of
social science statistics with politics
with claims of a personal nutrition and
kind of popular ecology so tempers run
red and discussions pretty quickly veer
away from the cold hard facts facts are
worth knowing about we're thinking about
I just want to clear up any rumors about
the scarf I'm wearing a scarf because
it's cold in here this is in fact
vacuuming day in my fabulous bachelor
apartment so the windows are all open
it's the Canadian winter and I'm
vacuuming in fresh air